# brain_controlled_home_automation
A brain-computer interface (BCI) is a new communication channel between the human brain and a digital computer.The ambitious goal of a BCI is finally the restoration of movements, communication and environmental control for handicapped people.An electroencephalogram (EEG) based brain-computer interface was connected with a Virtual Reality system in order to control a smart home application.It offers an alternative to natural communication and control. It is an artificial system that bypasses the body’s normal efficient pathways, which are the neuro muscular output channels.Different brain states are the result of different patterns of neural interaction. These patterns lead to waves characterized by different amplitudes and frequencies. This neural interaction is done with multiple neurons. Every interaction between neurons creates a minuscule electrical discharge. This project deals with the signals from brain.Different brain states are the result of different patterns of neural interaction. These patterns lead to waves characterized by different amplitudes and frequencies. The signal generated by brain was received by the brain sensor and it will divide into packets and the packet data transmitted to wireless medium (blue tooth).the wave measuring unit will receive the brain wave raw data and it will convert into signal using MATLAB GUI platform. Then the instructions will be sending to the home section to operate the modules (bulb, fan). The project operated with human brain assumption and the ON/OFF condition of home appliance is based on changing the muscle movement with blinking.

INTRODUCTION

Brain computer interface or mind machine interface is a computer-based system that acquires brain signals, analyzes them, and translates them into commands that are relayed to an output device to carry out a desired action .

A BCI is a computer-based system that acquires brain signals, analyzes them, and translates them into commands that are relayed to an output device to carry out a desired action. Thus, BCIs do not use the brain's normal output pathways of peripheral nerves and muscles

The Brain-Computer Interface (BCI) is one of the communication channel used to make an interaction between the human brain and a digital computer. BCI which monitors EEG waves from the Brain.

EEG –Electroencephalography which monitors an Electrical property of the Brain along with the Scalp (Non-invasive). The Neuro sky Mindwave mobile / Brain Sense measures intentionally directed EMG activity (blink strength).

A brain-computer interface (BCI) is a new communication channel between the human brain and a digital computer. The ambitious goal of a BCI is finally the restoration of movements, communication and environmental control for handicapped people

Arduino is an open-source hardware.Arduino UNO is a micro controller board based on the ATmega328P. It has 14 digital input/output pins (of which 6 can be used as PWM outputs), 6 analog inputs, a 16 MHz ceramic resonator, a USB connection, a power jack, an ICSP header and a reset button.

Arduino consists of both a physical programmable circuit board (often referred to as a microcontroller) and a piece of software, or IDE (Integrated Development Environment) that runs on your computer.arduinio is used to read data from sensors and produce output corresponding to it.
